Hi, everyone, in this next year, we are going to talk about the return key word for functions.
All right, so what is this return key word that that needs a dedicated lecture, so the return key
word calculates something.
It processes the code that we pass into it.
They end the function.
Now, the cool thing about the return key word is that not not no line of code is going to run after
the return key.
All right.
So the return key key word is always going to be the end of any function.
It says like, wrap everything up.
We are done here.
Right?
It's sort of like that.
So let's go ahead and let's take a look at the key word.
And in practice.
So in the first example, what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a function if I can.
Why what?
Right.
So in here in the function name, I'm just going to call it some in the parameters or programs.
I'm just going to pass in A and B..
So what do I want this function to do?
I want this function to return A plus B.
Yes, that's right.
For to write the return to where you just try to return that set.
So now this function has a return something.
But why don't we see anything?
Because we haven't called the function yet.
So calling the function is the same, has the same ideology.
We should always call the function if we want the function to perform its task, whatever that may be.
So we are going to say console does log and we are going to call the sum function and we are going to
pass in two arguments.
So it's going to be 10 and 12.
So when I say that, we are going to see twenty two in here.
All right.
So if I were if I were to go ahead and if I were to say another consultor log here and I would say like
15 plus 22 and I know save it.
Now, where is this concern like you guys can see?
I'm not sure if you if you can see it, but it's actually a bit faded out.
It's, you know, a bit transparent.
I would see the opacity is lower.
It's it's not as bright as this one because this consider log this piece of code, it comes after the
return to work and after the return.
Nothing is going to run if it is after the return.
It doesn't matter how many lines of code you have here, even if you have like like tens of tens of
lines of code, it doesn't matter when the return to work and the code ends right there.
Right.
So this is the first example and I want to show you one more thing, that we can capture the results
of a function and store it inside another variable.
Now, that is a common thing that that we would do in our applications, because when a function calculates
something, we want to grab that calculated value and do something with it.
We want to apply some logic to it.
OK, we just want we just don't want it to be shown on the console.
That is not the thing that we want.
We wanted to do something for us.
We want to do something on it.
So we should be able to access that value.
So we have a value of twenty two.
How can we store that value of twenty two.
And I'm going to show you how.
So we are going to say some numbers.
So this is another variable and I'm going to set it equal to the sum function whose parent whose arguments
are 10 and 12.
And I'm going to comment about this part now.
We have successfully with just one line of code, have captured the result of this function and why
we can see it, because we have not consider login.
So if I were to go ahead and say consider log, but this time I'm not going to call the function, I'm
just going to pass.
And the variable name we are going to see.
Twenty two.
All right.
Because the this function has been called as a value for this variable.
Right.
And when you call the variable, the variable has successfully captured the value of this function.
That's why we can see 22 right here.
So I just wanted to talk about this as well.
Right.
So now let's go ahead and let's talk about the second example.
All right, so in the second example, what I'm going to do is I'm going to pass in an F statement,
as a code, as a block of code for a function.
So let's go ahead and let's write function and let's give it a name, because I want this function to
portray like a real world kind of situation, sort of a real word.
But it's not going to be a complete application because we have not arrived at our like projects for
discourse yet.
We are going to get there.
All right.
So we are going to say check core.
Chick score, right, and in here, we are going to pass on to our two parameters, so we're going to
stay current with another our current score and you guys can see the camel casing in here.
The second word's first letterer has been capitalized.
Right.
And we are going to say a passing score.
We are going to check whether a student has the current score of any student is enough to be able for
that student to be able to pass or if the or when the student cannot pass, we're just going to say
fail.
So in here, we are going to implement an if statement because we have a condition.
We have the current score is either equal to or greater than the passing score we want to present to
the council passed.
And when this and in any other in any other scenario we want to say failed.
So if the current score is less than the passing score, the student has simply failed.
Unfortunately.
So we are going to say current score is greater than or equal to passing score if if the current score
is equal to or greater than the passing score, what do we want to do?
We want to say return, return a string.
And the string says past.
So so this is our condition.
What if the current score is less than the passing score?
All right.
So for that, we are going to add an ounce statement and in any other scenario, we want to pass in.
Failed, let's save it now, we don't see anything but because for one, we have not called the function
and for two, I'm not sure if we if we say for two and for two, we have not posted any arguments.
So let's go ahead and let's call the function check score and let's pass.
And now let's pass on the current score, because the first argument is going to be the current score
and the second argument is going to be the passing score.
So I'm going to pass in 94, the correct score.
And now you guys can see this passing score has an underlying.
It means that the return of the passing score and this Intellisense is so cool.
It even gives you the options that you that you will get at the end.
So you will get either pass you or you will get failed.
And I'm going to put the passing score at 55 and let's save it.
We don't see anything.
So let's go ahead and let's capture the result inside a another variable.
And we are going to call it net result, be equal to check score and we are going to consider a log
result.
And let's say results and let's save it, and it says passed because the check score is 90 and the passing
score is 55 and this condition is met, this condition is true.
So let's go ahead and let's check it out for some more conditions.
So what if we pass 85?
We are going to reconsider.
It says past.
Let's go ahead and let's check it for 55, because whenever you apply these sort of conditions, you
should check him at the boundaries as well.
And the boundary is 55 and 55.
All right.
So if I pass it there, we are going to see we are going to see passed as well.
Let's go ahead and let's check for the else statement.
So in this time, what I'm going to do is I'm going to pass a smaller number for the current score than
the passing score.
So this statement is implemented and we are going to see failed even if we check it at the boundary,
which is 50 for you guessed it right.
We are going to see failed.
All right, so this is actually how we can all right.
Let's just keep coming to that commented in one piece so we don't see that error.
All right.
So this is how we can implement if statements within functions.
And this is something this is very, very common.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to comment about everything because this was very long, right?
I mean, this code is long.
We can even make it shorter.
So so the third example, which is not actually an example, I'm just going to say shorter version.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to copy dysfunction and I'm going to put it here.
And let's go ahead and let's commented and.
All right.
So now let's see what we can do here.
So if I were to remove if I were just to take the return out and remove this, this function would still
work.
Why?
Because this is just an if statement.
If this condition is met, this code is going to run.
And if the condition is not met, this code is not going to run.
And this block of code, if the condition is not met, the block of F statement is not going to run.
And we are going to automatically come to this part and you might say, OK, when we have a return inside
a function, we just saw the return key it no code can run after it.
It is true, no code can run after it if that return key has run.
I mean, when this whenever you use the return keys inside if statements, the condition has to be true
for this return to be calculated.
I mean, when the condition is not true, this block of code is not going to run at all.
So when this block of code is does not run, we get to this part.
This part runs.
So I'm just going to go over this concept one more time because I feel like it's like a bit shaky.
All right.
So whenever we talk about only one single if statements, what do we do is first off, we check for
a condition.
And when the condition is met, we run some sort of code, we run some sort of programmed logic.
All right.
And when the condition is not true, whatever is inside this curly brace of this, if statement is not
going to run, that's why this return statement is not going to run.
This is the reason, number one, that we can do this.
And the reason, number two is that this return is code to this if statement.
We haven't talked about scopes yet.
We are going to talk about them in the next lecture.
But I just I just gave you a heads up about scopes.
They are basically how JavaScript works.
All right.
So this returns.
Keyword is code to this if statement and then it is Skoch to this function.
So when the if statement does not run, this return keyword is not going to run and then we are going
to automatically come to this.
So when the condition is not met, it is automatically going to come to the return failed.
So we don't need to provide another statement.
We can surely not shorten it up or code and make it simpler as a result.
So let's copy all that.
Let's put it here.
Let's come in this one out and let's comment each of them out.
One by one.
We see past comments out and we see past past failed.
Failed.
All right.
So our logic performs well.
That's it for this.
Let's see you guys in the next one.